---
weight: 510
title: "91. Review"
description: ""
icon: "article"
date: "2023-09-11T15:59:58+02:00"
lastmod: "2023-09-11T15:59:58+02:00"
draft: false
toc: true
---

1.   By 18 February 2027, the Commission shall evaluate and report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the potential effect of this Regulation on the development and economic growth of small and medium-sized enterprises.

By 17 November 2025, the Commission shall evaluate and report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on:

(a) the application of Article 33, including the scope of providers of intermediary services covered by the obligations set out in Section 5 of Chapter III of this Regulation;

(b) the way that this Regulation interacts with other legal acts, in particular the acts referred to in Article 2(3) and (4).

2.   By 17 November 2027, and every five years thereafter, the Commission shall evaluate this Regulation, and report to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee.

This report shall address in particular:

(a) the application of paragraph 1, second subparagraph, points (a) and (b);

(b) the contribution of this Regulation to the deepening and efficient functioning of the internal market for intermediary services, in particular as regards the cross-border provision of digital services;

(c) the application of Articles 13, 16, 20, 21, 45 and 46;

(d) the scope of the obligations on small and micro enterprises;

(e) the effectiveness of the supervision and enforcement mechanisms;

(f) the impact on the respect for the right to freedom of expression and information.

3.   Where appropriate, the report referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be accompanied by a proposal for amendment of this Regulation.

4.   The Commission shall, in the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, also evaluate and report on the annual reports on their activities by the Digital Services Coordinators provided to the Commission and the Board pursuant to Article 55(1).

5.   For the purpose of paragraph 2, Member States and the Board shall send information on the request of the Commission.

6.   In carrying out the evaluations referred to in paragraph 2, the Commission shall take into account the positions and findings of the European Parliament, the Council, and other relevant bodies or sources, and shall pay specific attention to small and medium-sized enterprises and the position of new competitors.

7.   By 18 February 2027, the Commission, after consulting the Board, shall carry out an assessment of the functioning of the Board and of the application of Article 43, and shall report it to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee, taking into account the first years of application of the Regulation. On the basis of the findings and taking utmost account of the opinion of the Board, that report shall, where appropriate, be accompanied by a proposal for amendment of this Regulation with regard to the structure of the Board.